movie started really hollywoody romance. i didn't like Jesse and Celine felt too mature for him. however, the premise is of course touching, it is always a beautiful feeling to have a momentary connection with someone, and to get to know them briefly. 

it did feel that the beginning of the movie wasn't as interesting as later, almost similar to how first dates are. As you get over the first bumps of getting to know each other, as you slowly take down the walls, knowing that the other person isn't going to judge you for who you are, their conversation also got more interesting.

jesse felt really enamored by celine, and almost was trying too hard to impress. made me think of how i would be insecure when i was younger. it makes me feel sad that maybe he would have had an even better night, if he was being even more open about his emotions. 

i really loved a thought that celine brought up about how feminism might had been invented by men so that women feel more empowered to feel their minds and their bodies. of course the movie only touches on very simple themes of feminism and it is almost insulting to try to talk about feminism with the themes in the movie, but i often also feel that men has weaponized feminism to some extent. being a feminist, is almost a strategy men use to manipulate women, which in itself is a disrespect to the concept itself. and yes we should celebrate the freedom we get, but how terrible it is that sometimes the benefit we get is only due to interests of the powerful. i was watching a video about oligarchy recently and it would talk about how rich would have immense influence on the new policies and even new pop culture trends. our lives are determined by the whims of the powerful, and we are trying our best to be ourselves.

i know that i'm not talking much about the movie, but again the small things stood out more to me. for example how the guys after the birthing dance kept staring at the couple, and being judgemental. why do people feel the need to look at someone else and question their choices and their situation? another part that stood out was how regardless of age and character, people felt the need to socialize in the bar/cafe. i liked how jesse and celine were just another group, and as audience we didn't even know what most people were talking about.

when celine says that she can truly love someone after knowing everything about them, i thought that was another part that resonated with me. knowing the stories they would tell again and again, knowing in what position they would sleep, knowing how they would raise their heads and look at you. i feel that it is more connecting between two people. 

and when they talked about how every relationship will eventually turn ugly, that also feels familiar. with comfort and time, we are more judgemental to each other, which makes the ephemeral connections always more powerful. nothing feels more lasting than spending a few fleeting hours with someone, and then never getting to see them again to know how it would have been eventually less and less interesting. though, i do think the previous point that celine made about really getting to know someone eventually matches this momentary honeymoon like excitement.

i don't have much thoughts about how they said goodbye, or how they wanted to see each other again, or how they felt having intimacy would have sullied their night. it feels very young love, and i much preferred the almost childish more pure love in "whisper of the heart". before sunrise love felt like a couple who hasn't learned to love themselves before they can love others. at least in "whisper of the heart", they truly were children and they didn't have complexities in their decisions.

i don't think i'd recommend or watch it again, but i don't regret watching it because as the instagram post said, it was nice to be "the fly on the wall watching their conversations". 